Abstract
  Figure 1. Our context-aware saliency results (bottom) comply with the descriptions that people provided (samples in the second row) for the input images (top). People tend to describe the scene rather than the dominant object. Classical saliency extraction algorithms aim at the third row, which might miss the essence of the scene. Conversely, we maintain all the essential regions of the image.  methods aim to extract the “girl”, the “figure”, and the “athlete“ (third row). This type of saliency is useful for several high-level tasks, such as object recognition [20] or segmentation [18]. There are, however, applications where the context of the dominant objects is just as essential as the objects themselves. Examples include image classification [14], summarization of a photo collection [17], thumbnailing [21], and retargeting [19]. For these applications, the detected regions in Figure 1 should correspond to the titles you gave above. The regions on the bottom row of Figure 1 match these titles better than the regions on the third row.  (a) Input  (b) Local [24]  (c) Global [7]  (d) Local-global [13]  (e) Our context-aware  Figure 2. Comparing different approaches to saliency  This calls for introducing a new type of saliency – contextaware saliency. Here, the goal is to identify the pixels that correspond to the bottom row (and to the titles). According to this concept, the salient regions should contain not only the prominent objects but also the parts of the background that convey the context. We differentiate between three types of images, as illustrated in Figure 1. In the girl’s case, the background is not interesting, hence, we expect the extracted salient region to coincide with the salient object. In the flower-field’s case, the texture of the flowers is essential for understanding the content. However, only a small portion of it – the portion surrounding the figure – suffices. In the weight lifter’s case, some of the contextual background is vital for conveying the scene. This is not necessarily the portion surrounding the athlete, but rather a unique part of the background (the weights and the olympic logo). Therefore, detecting the prominent object together with naive addition of its immediate surrounding will not suffice. This paper proposes a novel algorithm for context-aware saliency detection. The underlying idea is that salient regions are distinctive with respect to both their local and global surroundings. Hence, the unique parts of the background, and not only the dominant objects, would be marked salient by our algorithm (e.g., the Olympics logo in Figure 1). Moreover, to comply with the Gestalt laws, we prioritize regions close to the foci of attention. This maintains the background texture, when it is interesting, such as in the case of the flower field in Figure 1. We demonstrate the utility of our context-aware saliency in two applications. The first is retargeting[1, 19, 16], where we show that our saliency can successfully mark the regions that should be kept untouched. The second is summarization [17, 25, 2, 15, 4], where we demonstrate that saliencybased collages are informative, compact, and eye-pleasing. The contribution of this paper is hence threefold. First, we introduce principles for context-aware saliency (Section 2). Second, we propose an algorithm that detects this saliency (Section 3) and present results on images of various types (Section 4). Last but not least, we demonstrate the applicability of our saliency (Section 5).
Conclusion
 This paper proposes a new type of saliency – contextaware saliency – which detects the important parts of the scene. This saliency is based on four principles observed in the psychological literature: local low-level considerations, global considerations, visual organizational rules, and highlevel factors. The paper further presents an algorithm for computing this saliency. There exists a variety of applications where the context of the dominant objects is just as essential as the objects themselves. This paper evaluated the contribution of context-  (a) The collage summarization  (b) The saliency maps of the input images Figure 11. Summarization of a trip to LA using 14 images.  aware saliency in two such applications – retargeting and summarization. In the future we intend to learn the benefits of this saliency in more applications, such as image classification and thumbnailing. Acknowledgements: This work was supported by the Fund for the Promotion of Research at the Technion and by the Ollendorff Foundation.  References
