We propose a data-driven approach to enhance translation extraction from comparable corpora. Instead of resorting to an external dictionary, we translate source vector features by using a cross-lingual Word Sense Disambiguation method. The candidate senses for a feature correspond to sense clusters of its translations in a parallel corpus and the context used for disambiguation consists of the vector that contains the feature. The translations found in the disambiguation output convey the sense of the features in the source vector, while the use of translation clusters permits to expand their translation with several variants. As a consequence, the translated vectors are less noisy and richer, and allow for the extraction of higher quality lexicons compared to simpler methods.

 Large-scale comparable corpora are available in many language pairs and are viewed as a source of valuable information for multilingual applications. Identifying translation correspondences in this type of corpora permits to construct bilingual lexicons for low-resourced languages, and to complement and reduce the sparseness of existing resources (Munteanu and Marcu, 2005; Snover et al., 2008). The main assumption behind translation extraction from comparable corpora is that a source word and its translation appear in similar contexts (Fung, 1998; Rapp, 1999). So, in order to identify a translation correspondence between the two languages, the contexts of the source word and the candidate translation have to be compared. For this comparison to take place, the same vector space has to be produced, which means that the vectors of the one language have to be translated in the other language. This generally assumes the availability of a bilingual dictionary which might however not be the case for some language pairs and domains. Moreover, the classic way in which a dictionary is put into use, which consists in translating vector features by their first translation in the dictionary, neglects semantics. We expect that a method capable of identifying the correct sense of the features and translating them accordingly could contribute to producing cleaner vectors and to extracting higher quality lexicons.  In this paper, we show how source vectors can be translated into the target language by a cross-lingual Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) method which exploits the output of data-driven Word Sense Induction (WSI) (Apidianaki, 2009), and demonstrate how feature disambiguation enhances the quality of the translations extracted from the comparable corpus. This study extends our previous work on the topic (Apidianaki et al., 2012) by applying the proposed methods to a comparable corpus of general language (built from Wikipedia) and optimizing various parameters that affect the quality of the extracted translations. We expect the disambiguation to have a beneficial impact on the results given that polysemy is a frequent phenomenon in a general, mixed-domain corpus. Our experiments are carried out on the English-Slovene language pair but as the methods are totally data-driven, the approach can be easily applied to other languages.  The paper is organized as follows: In the next section, we present some related work on bilingual lexicon extraction from comparable corpora. Section 3 presents the data used in our experiments and Section 4 provides details on the approach and the experimental setup. In Section 5, we report and discuss the obtained results before concluding and presenting some directions for future work.  1 Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Building and Using Comparable Corpora, pages 1–10, Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8, 2013. Qc 2013 Association for Computational Linguistics 2 

We have shown how cross-lingual WSD can be applied to bilingual lexicon extraction from comparable corpora. The disambiguation of source language features using translation clusters constitutes the main contribution of this work and presents several advantages. First, the method performs disambiguation by using sense descriptions derived from the data, which clearly differentiatesour method from the approaches based on external lexicons and extends its applicability to resourcepoor languages. The translation clusters acquired through WSI serve to disambiguate the features in the source language context vectors and to produce less noisy translated vectors. An additional advantage is that the sense clusters often contain more than one translation and, therefore, provide supplementary material for the comparison of the vectors in the target language. The results show that data-driven semantic analysis can help to circumvent the need for an external seed dictionary, traditionally considered as a prerequisite for translation extraction from parallel corpora. Moreover, it is clear that disambiguating the vectors improves the quality of the extracted lexicons and manages to beat the simpler, but yet powerful, most frequent translation heuristic. These encouraging results pave the way towards pure data-driven methods for bilingual lexicon extraction. This knowledge-light approach can be applied to languages and domains that do not dispose of large-scale seed dictionaries but for which parallel corpora are available. An avenue that we intend to explore in future work is to extract translations corresponding to different senses of the headwords. Up to now, research on translation extraction has most often aimed the identification of one good translation for a source word in the comparable corpus. This has also been the case because most works have focused on identifying translations for specialized terms that do not convey different senses. However, words in a general language corpus like Wikipedia can be polysemous and it is important to identify translations corresponding to their different senses. Moreover, polysemy makes the translation extraction procedure more difficult, as features corresponding to different senses are mingled in the same vector. A way to discover translations corresponding to different word senses would be to apply a monolingual WSI method on the source side of the comparable corpus which would group the closely related usages of the headwords together, and to then build vectors for each usage group hopefully describing a distinct sense. Using the generated sets of vectors separately will allow to extract translations corresponding to different senses of the source words. 
