Chinese word segmentation (CWS) is a necessary step in Chinese-English statistical machine translation (SMT) and its performance has an impact on the results of SMT. However, there are many settings involved in creating a CWS system such as various specifications and CWS methods. This paper investigates the effect of these settings to SMT. We tested dictionarybased and CRF-based approaches and found there was no significant difference between the two in the qualty of the resulting translations. We also found the correlation between the CWS F-score and SMT BLEU score was very weak. This paper also proposes two methods of combining advantages of different specifications: a simple concatenation of training data and a feature interpolation approach in which the same types of features of translation models from various CWS schemes are linearly interpolated. We found these approaches were very effective in improving quality of translations.

 Chinese word segmentation (CWS) is a necessary step in Chinese-English statistical machine translation (SMT). The research on CWS independently from SMT has been conducted for decades. As an evidence, the CWS evaluation campaign, the Sighan Bakeoff (Emerson, 2005),1, has been held four times since 2004. However, works on relations between CWS and SMT are scarce. Generally, two factors need to be considered in constructing a CWS system. The first one is the specifications for CWS, i.e., the rules or guidelines for word segmentation, and the second one is the CWS methods. There are many CWS specifications used by different organizations. Unfortunately, these organizations do not seem to have any intention of reaching a unified specification. More than five or six specifications have been used in the four Sighan Bakeoffs. There is also significant disagreement on the specifications, although much of their contents is the same. One of the aims of this work was therefore to establish whether inconsistencies in specifications significantly affect the quality of SMT. The second factor is CWS methods. We grouped all of the CWS methods into two classes: the class without out-of-vocabulary (OOV) recognition and the class with OOV recognition, represented by the dictionary-based CWS and the CRF-based CWS, respectively. Out-of-vocabulary recognition may have two-sided effects on SMT performance. The CRFbased CWS that supports OOV recognition produces word segmentations with a higher F-score, but a huge number of new words recognized correctly and incorrectly that can incur data sparseness in training the SMT models. On the other hand, the dictionarybased approach that does not support OOV recognition produced a lower F-score, but with a relatively weak data spareness problem. Which approach pro 1 A CWS competition organized by the ACL special interest group on Chinese.216 Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pages 216223, Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. Qc 2008 Association for Computational Linguistics Table 1: Examples of disagreement in segmentation guidelines ChineseName EnglishName Time AS DENGXIAOPING GEORGE BUSH 1997YEAR 7MONTH 1DAY CITYU DENGXIAOPING GEORGEBUSH 1997 YEAR 7 MONTH 1 DAY MSR DENGXIAOPING GEORGEBUSH 1997YEAR7MONTH1DAY PKU DENG XIAOPING GEORGEBUSH 1997YEAR 7MONTH 1DAY Table 2: A second example of disagreement in segmentation guidelines Composite words Composite words AS FUJITSUCOMPANY EUROZONE CITYU FUJITSU COMPANY EUROZONE MSR FUJITSUCOMPANY EURO ZONE PKU FUJITSU COMPANY EUROZONEduces a better SMT result is our research interest in this work. The performance of CWS is usually measured by the F-score, while that of SMT is measured using the BLEU score. Does a CWS with a higher Fscore produce a better translation? In this paper we answer this question by comparing F-scores with BLEU scores. In this work, we also propose approaches to make use of all the Sighan training data regardless of the specifications. Two methods are proposed: a simple combination of all the training data, and implementing linear interpolation of multiple translation models. Linear interpolation is widely used in language modeling for speech recognition. We interpolated multiple translation models generated by the CWS schemes and found our approaches were very effective in improving the translations.

We investigated the effect of CWS on SMT from two points of view. Firstly, we analyzed multiple CWS specifications and built a CWS for each one to examine how they affected translations. Secondly, we investigated the advantages and disadvantages of various CWS approaches, both dictionary-based and CRF-based, and built CWSs using these approaches to examine their effect on translations. We proposed a new approach to linear interpolation of translation features. This approach produced a significant improvement in translation andachieved the best BLEU score of all the CWSschemes. We have published a much more detailed paper (Zhang et al., 2008) to describe the relations between CWS and SMT. 
