Context-based projection methods for identifying the translation of terms in comparable corpora has attracted a lot of attention in the community, e.g. (Fung,1998; Rapp, 1999). Surprisingly, none of those works have systematically investigated the impact of the many parameters controlling their approach. The present study aims at doing just this. As a testcase, we address the task of translating terms of the medical domain by exploiting pages mined from Wikipedia. One interesting outcome of this study is that significant gains can be obtained by using an association measure that is rarely used in practice.

 Identifying translations of terms in comparable corpora is a challenge that has attracted many researchers. A popular idea that emerged for solving this problem is based on the assumption that the context of a term and its translation share similarities that can be used to rank translation candidates (Fung, 1998; Rapp, 1999). Many variants of this idea have been implemented. While a few studies have investigated pattern matching approaches to compare source and target contexts (Fung, 1995; Diab and Finch, 2000; Yu and Tsujii, 2009), most variants make use of a bilingual lexicon in order to translate the words of the context of a term (often called seed words). De´jean et al. (2005) instead use a bilingual thesaurus for translating these.  Another distinction between approaches lies in the way the context is defined. The most common practice, the so-called window-based approach, defines the context words as those cooccuring significantly with the source term within windows centered around the term.1 Some studies have reported gains by considering syntactically motivated co-occurrences. Yu and Tsujii (2009) propose a resource-intensive strategy which requires both source and target dependency parsers, while Otero (2007) investigates a lighter approach where a few hand coded regular expressions based on POS tags simulate source parsing. The latter approach only requires a POS tagger of the source and the target languages as well as a small parallel corpus in order to project the source regular expressions. Naturally, studies differ in the way each cooccurrence (either window or syntax-based) is weighted, and a plethora of association scores have been investigated and compared, the likelihood score (Dunning, 1993) being among the most popular. Also, different similarity measures have been proposed for ranking target context vectors, among which the popular cosine measure. The goal of the different authors who investigate context-projection approaches also varies. Some studies are tackling the problem of identifying the translation of general words (Rapp, 1999; Otero, 2007; Yu and Tsujii, 2009) while others are addressing the translation of domain specific terms. Among the latter, many are translating single-word terms (Chiao and Zweigenbaum, 2002; De´jean et al., 2005; Prochasson et 1 A stoplist is typically used in order to prevent function words from populating the context vectors.   617 Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 617–625, Beijing, August 2010 al., 2009), while others are tackling the translation of multi-word terms (Daille and Morin, 2005). The type of discourse might as well be of concern in some of the studies dedicated to bilingual terminology mining. For instance, Morin et al. (2007) distinguish popular science versus scientific terms, while Saralegi et al. (2008) target popular science terms only. The present discussion only focuses on a few number of representative studies. Still, it is already striking that a direct comparison of them is difficult, if not impossible. Differences in resources being used (in quantities, in domains, etc.), in technical choices made (similarity measures, context vector computation, etc.) and in objectives (general versus terminological dictionary extraction) prevent one from establishing a clear landscape of the various approaches. Indeed, many studies provide some figures that help to appreciate the influence of some parameters in a given experimental setting. Notably, Otero (2008) studies no less than 7 similarity measures for ranking context vectors while comparing window and syntax-based methods. Morin et al. (2007) consider both the log-likelihood and the mutual information association scores as well as the Jaccard and the cosine similarity measures. Ideally, a benchmark on which researchers could run their translation finder would ease the comparison of the different approaches. However, designing such a benchmark that would satisfy the evaluation purposes of all the researchers is far too ambitious a goal for this contribution. Instead, we investigate the impact of some major factors influencing projection-based approaches on a task of translating 5,000 terms of the medical domain (the most studied domain), making use of French and English Wikipedia pages extracted monolingually thanks to an information retrieval engine. While the present work does not investigate all the parameters that could potentially impact results, we believe it constitutes the most complete and systematic comparison made so far with variants of the context-based projection approach. In the remainder of this paper, we describe the projection-based approach to translation spotting in Section 2 and detail the parameters that directly influence its performance. The experimental pro tocol we followed is described in Section 3 and we analyze our results in Section 4. We discuss the main results in the light of previous work and propose some future avenues in Section 5. 2 

Our results show that using the log-odds ratio as the association measure allows for significantly better translation spotting than the log-likelihood. A closer look at the translation candidates obtained when using LL, the most popular association measure in projection-based approaches, shows that they are often collocates of the reference translation. Therefore, LL may fare better in an indirect approach, like the one in (Daille and Morin, 2005). Moreover, we have seen that the cosine similarity measure and sentence contexts give moreLO is used. Indeed, the values of the different parameters influence one another in most cases. Parameters related to the seed lexicon (size, domain specificity) are not of great influence on the performance, but this may in part be due to our resources and the way they were built. The highest Top 1 precision, 55.2 %, was reached with the following parameters: sentence contexts, LO, cosine and a 9,000-entry mixed lexicon, with the use of a cognate heuristic. In future works, other parameters which influence the performance will be studied, among which the use of a terminological extractor to treat complex terms (Daille and Morin, 2005), more contextual window configurations, and the use of syntactic information in combination with lexical information (Yu and Tsujii, 2009). It would also be interesting to compare the projection-based approaches to (Haghighi et al., 2008)’s generative model for bilingual lexicon acquisition from monolingual corpora. One latent outcome of this work is that Wikipedia is surprisingly suitable for mining medical terms. We plan to check its adequacy for other domains and verify that LO remains a better association measure for different corpora and domains. 
