(1 ll. When automatically translating from a weakly inflected source language like English to a target language with richer grammatical features such as gender and dual number, the output commonly contains morpho-syntactic agreement errors. To address this issue, we present a target-side, class-based agreement model. Agreement is promoted by scoring a sequence of fine-grained morpho-syntactic classes that are predicted during decoding for each translation hypothesis. For English-to-Arabic translation, our model yields a +1.04 BLEU average improvement over a state-of-the-art baseline. The model does not require bitext or phrase table annotations and can be easily implemented as a feature in many phrase-based decoders.

 Languages vary in the degree to which surface forms reflect grammatical relations. English is a weakly inflected language: it has a narrow verbal paradigm, restricted nominal inflection (plurals and only the vestiges of a case system. Consequently, translation into Englishwhich accounts for much of the machine translation (MT) literature (Lopez, 2008)often involves some amount of morpho-syntactic dimensionality reduction. Less attention has been paid to what happens during translation from English: richer grammatical features such as gender, dual number, and overt case are effectively latent variables that must be inferred during decoding. Consider the output of Google Translate for the simple English sentence in Fig. 1. The correct translation is a monotone mapping of the input. However, in Arabic, SVO word order requires both gender and number agreement between the subject ll the car and verb. go. The MT system selects the correct verb stem, but with masculine inflection. Although the translation has the-carsg.def.fem gosg.masc with-speedsg.fem The car goes quickly Figure 1: Ungrammatical Arabic output of Google Translate for the English input The car goes quickly. The subject should agree with the verb in both gender and number, but the verb has masculine inflection. For clarity, the Arabic tokens are arranged left-to-right. the correct semantics, it is ultimately ungrammatical. This paper addresses the problem of generating text that conforms to morpho-syntactic agreement rules. Agreement relations that cross statistical phrase boundaries are not explicitly modeled in most phrasebased MT systems (Avramidis and Koehn, 2008 We address this shortcoming with an agreement model that scores sequences of fine-grained morphosyntactic classes. First, bound morphemes in translation hypotheses are segmented. Next, the segments are labeled with classes that encode both syntactic category information (i.e parts of speech) and grammatical features such as number and gender. Finally, agreement is promoted by scoring the predicted class sequences with a generative Markov model. Our model scores hypotheses during decoding. Unlike previous models for scoring syntactic relations, our model does not require bitext annotations, phrase table features, or decoder modifications. The model can be implemented using the feature APIs of popular phrase-based decoders such as Moses (Koehn et al 2007) and Phrasal (Cer et al 2010 Intuition might suggest that the standard n-gram language model (LM) is sufficient to handle agreement phenomena. However, LM statistics are sparse, and they are made sparser by morphological variation. For English-to-Arabic translation, we achieve a +1.04 BLEU average improvement by tiling our model on top of a large LM.146 Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 146155, Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. Qc 2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsIt has also been suggested that this setting requires morphological generation because the bitext may not Pron+Fem+SgVerb+Masc+3+PlPrtConj contain all inflected variants (Minkov et al 2007; Toutanova et al 2008; Fraser et al 2012 However, using lexical coverage experiments, we show thatit there is ample room for translation quality improvements through better selection of forms that already exist in the translation model.they writewilland .

Our class-based agreement model improves translation quality by promoting local agreement, but with a minimal increase in decoding time and no additional storage requirements for the phrase table. The model can be implemented with a standard CRF package, trained on existing treebanks for many languages, and integrated easily with many MT feature APIs. We achieved best results when the model training data, MT tuning set, and MT evaluation set conThe bottom category includes all lexical items that the decoder could produce in a translation of the source. This large gap between the unigram recall of the actual translation output (top) and the lexical coverage of the phrase-based model (bottom) indicates that translation performance can be improved dramatically by altering the translation model through features such as ours, without expanding the search space of the decoder.mixed genre evaluation sets. In principle, our class-based model should be more robust to unseen word types and other phenomena that make non-newswire genres challenging. However, our analysis has shown that for Arabic, these genres typically contain more Latin script and transliterated words, and thus there is less morphology to score. One potential avenue of future work would be to adapt our component models to new genres by self-training them on the target side of a large bitext.10 To focus on possibly inflected word forms, we excluded numbers and punctuation from this analysis.11 The annotator was the first author 
