We propose an approach that biases machine translation systems toward relevant translations based on topic-specific contexts, where topics are induced in an unsupervised way using topic models; this can be thought of as inducing subcorpora for adaptation without any human annotation. We use these topic distributions to compute topic-dependent lexical weighting probabilities and directly incorporate them into our translation model as features. Conditioning lexical probabilities on the topic biases translations toward topicrelevant output, resulting in significant improvements of up to 1 BLEU and 3 TER on Chinese to English translation over a strong baseline.

 The performance of a statistical machine translation (SMT) system on a translation task depends largely on the suitability of the available parallel training data. Domains (e.g., newswire vs. blogs) may vary widely in their lexical choices and stylistic preferences, and what may be preferable in a general setting, or in one domain, is not necessarily preferable in another domain. Indeed, sometimes the domain can change the meaning of a phrase entirely. In a food related context, the Chinese sentence “粉 丝 很 多 ” (“feˇns¯i heˇnduo¯ ”) would mean “They have a lot of vermicelli”; however, in an informal Internet conversation, this sentence would mean “They have a lot of fans”. Without the broader context, it is impossible to determine the correct translation in otherwise identical sentences.  This problem has led to a substantial amount of recent work in trying to bias, or adapt, the translation model (TM) toward particular domains of interest (Axelrod et al., 2011; Foster et al., 2010; Snover et al., 2008).1 The intuition behind TM adaptation is to increase the likelihood of selecting relevant phrases for translation. Matsoukas et al. (2009) introduced assigning a pair of binary features to each training sentence, indicating sentences’ genre and collection as a way to capture domains. They then learn a mapping from these features to sentence weights, use the sentence weights to bias the model probability estimates and subsequently learn the model weights. As sentence weights were found to be most beneficial for lexical weighting, Chiang et al. (2011) extends the same notion of conditioning on provenance (i.e., the origin of the text) by removing the separate mapping step, directly optimizing the weight of the genre and collection features by computing a separate word translation table for each feature, estimated from only those sentences that comprise that genre or collection. The common thread throughout prior work is the concept of a domain. A domain is typically a hard constraint that is externally imposed and hand labeled, such as genre or corpus collection. For example, a sentence either comes from newswire, or weblog, but not both. However, this poses several problems. First, since a sentence contributes its counts only to the translation table for the source it came from, many word pairs will be unobserved for a given table. This sparsity requires smoothing. Second, we may not know the (sub)corpora our training 1 Language model adaptation is also prevalent but is not the focus of this work.  115 Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 115–119, Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. Qc 2012 Association for Computational Linguistics  data come from; and even if we do, “subcorpus” may not be the most useful notion of domain for better translations. We take a finer-grained, flexible, unsupervised approach for lexical weighting by domain. We induce unsupervised domains from large corpora, and we incorporate soft, probabilistic domain membership into a translation model. Unsupervised modeling of the training data produces naturally occurring subcorpora, generalizing beyond corpus and genre. Depending on the model used to select subcorpora, we can bias our translation toward any arbitrary distinction. This reduces the problem to identifying what automatically defined subsets of the training corpus may be beneficial for translation. In this work, we consider the underlying latent topics of the documents (Blei et al., 2003). Topic modeling has received some use in SMT, for instance Bilingual LSA adaptation (Tam et al., 2007), and the BiTAM model (Zhao and Xing, 2006), which uses a bilingual topic model for learning alignment. In our case, by building a topic distribution for the source side of the training data, we abstract the notion of domain to include automatically derived subcorpora with probabilistic membership. This topic model infers the topic distribution of a test set and biases sentence translations to appropriate topics. We accomplish this by introducing topic dependent lexical probabilities directly as c(f, e)/2.e c(f, e) . Phrase pair probabilities p(e|f ) are computed from these as described in Koehn et al. (2003). Chiang et al. (2011) showed that is it beneficial to condition the lexical weighting features on provenance by assigning each sentence pair a set of features, fs(e|f ), one for each domain s, which compute a new word translation table ps(e|f ) esti mated from only those sentences which belong to s: cs(f, e)/2.e cs(f, e) , where cs(·) is the number of occurrences of the word pair in s. Topic Modeling for MT We extend provenance to cover a set of automatically generated topics zn. Given a parallel training corpus T composed of documents di, we build a source side topic model over T , which provides a topic distribution p(zn|di) for zn = {1, . . . , K } over each document, using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) (Blei et al., 2003). Then, we assign p(zn|di) to be the topic distribution for every sentence xj ∈ di, thus enforcing topic sharing across sentence pairs in the same document instead of treating them as unrelated. Computing the topic distribution over a document and assigning it to the sentences serves to tie the sentences together in the document context. To obtain the lexical probability conditioned on topic distribution, we first compute the expected count ezn (e, f ) of a word pair under topic zn: features in the translation model, and interpolating them log-linearly with our other features, thus allow  ezn (e, f ) =  p(zn|di)  cj (e, f ) 	(1) ing us to discriminatively optimize their weights on di ∈T xj ∈di an arbitrary objective function. Incorporating these features into our hierarchical phrase-based translation system significantly improved translation per where cj (·) denotes the number of occurrences of the word pair in sentence xj , and then compute: ezn (e, f ) formance, by up to 1 BLEU and 3 TER over a strong Chinese to English baseline. pzn (e|f ) = 2.  e ezn (e, f ) (2)  2	

Applying SMT to new domains requires techniques to inform our algorithms how best to adapt. This paper extended the usual notion of domains to finergrained topic distributions induced in an unsupervised fashion. We show that incorporating lexical weighting features conditioned on soft domain membership directly into our model is an effective strategy for dynamically biasing SMT towards relevant translations, as evidenced by significant performance gains. This method presents several advantages over existing approaches. We can construct a topic model once on the training data, and use it infer topics on any test set to adapt the translation model. We can also incorporate large quantities of additional data (whether parallel or not) in the source language to infer better topics without relying on collection or genre annotations. Multilingual topic models (Boyd-Graber and Resnik, 2010) would provide a technique to use data from multiple languages to ensure consistent topics. 
