This paper gives an overview of our work on statistical machine translation of spoken dialogues, in particular in the framework of the Verbmobil project. The goal of the Verbmobil project is the translation of spoken dialogues in the domains of appointment scheduling and travel planning. Starting with the Bayes decision rule as in speech recognition, we show how the required probability distributions can be structured into three parts: the language model, the alignment model and the lexicon model. We describe the components of the system and report results on the Verbmobil task. The experience obtained in the Verbmobil project, in particular a large-scale end-to-end evaluation, showed that the statistical approach resulted in significantly lower error rates than three competing translation approaches: the sentence error rate was 29% in comparison with 52% to 62% for the other translation approaches.

 In comparison with written language, speech and especially spontaneous speech poses additional difficulties for the task of automatic translation. Typically, these difficulties are caused by errors of the recognition process, which is carried out before the translation process. As a result, the sentence to be translated is not necessarily well-formed from a syntactic point-of-view. Even without recognition errors, speech translation has to cope with a lack of conventional syntactic structures because the structures of spontaneous speech differ from that of written language. The statistical approach shows the potential to tackle these problems for the following reasons. First, the statistical approach is able to avoid hard decisions at any level of the translation process. Second, for any source sentence, a translated sentence in the target language is guaranteed to be generated. In most cases, this will be hopefully a syntactically perfect sentence in the target language; but even if this is not the case, in most cases, the translated sentence will convey the meaning of the spoken sentence.Whereas statistical modelling is widely used in speech recognition, there are so far only a few research groups that apply statistical modelling to language translation. The presentation here is based on work carried out in the framework of the EuTrans project and the Verbmobil project . 

 In this paper, we have given an overview of the statistical approach to machine translation and especially its implementation in the Verbmobil prototype system. The statistical system has been trained on about running words from a bilingual GermanEnglish corpus. Translations are performed for both directions, i.e. from German to English and from English to German. Comparative evaluations with other translation approaches of the Verbmobil prototype system show that the statistical translation is superior, especially in the presence of speech input and ungrammatical input. 
