 Typically, the lexicon models used in statistical machine translation systems do not include any kind of linguistic or contextual information, which often leads to problems in performing a cor rect word sense disambiguation. One way to deal with this problem within the statistical framework is to use max imum entropy methods. In this paper, we present how to use this type of in formation within a statistical machine translation system. We show that it is possible to significantly decrease train ing and test corpus perplexity of the translation models. In addition, we per form a rescoring of  -Best lists us ing our maximum entropy model and thereby yield an improvement in trans lation quality. Experimental results are presented on the so-called “Verbmobil Task”. 

 We have developed refined lexicon models for statistical machine translation by using maximum entropy models. We have been able to obtain a significant better test corpus perplexity and also a slight improvement in translation quality. We believe that by performing a rescoring on translation word graphs we will obtain a more significant improvement in translation quality. For the future we plan to investigate more refined feature selection methods in order to make the maximum entropy models smaller and better generalizing. In addition, we want to investigate more syntactic, semantic features and to include features that go beyond sentence boundaries.  given German source sentence.   Franz J. Och. 1999. An efficient method for determining bilingual word classes. In EACL ’99: Ninth Conf. of the Europ. Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 71–76, Bergen, Norway, June. K.A. Papineni, S. Roukos, and R.T. Ward.	1996. Feature-based language understanding. In ESCA, Eurospeech, pages 1435–1438, Rhodes, Greece. K.A. Papineni, S. Roukos, and R.T. Ward.	1998. Maximum likelihood and discriminative training of direct translation models. In Proc. Int. Conf. on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, pages 189–192. Jochen Peters and Dietrich Klakow. 1999. Compact maximum entropy language models. In Proceedings of the IEEE Workshop on Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding, Keystone, CO, December. Stephen Della Pietra, Vincent Della Pietra, and John Lafferty. 1997. Inducing features in random fields. IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine Inteligence, 19(4):380–393, July. Eric S. Ristad. 1997. Maximum entropy modelling toolkit. Technical report, Princeton Univesity. R. Rosenfeld. 1996. A maximum entropy approach to adaptive statistical language modeling. Computer, Speech and Language, 10:187–228. Christoph Tillmann and Hermann Ney. 2000. Word re-ordering and dp-based search in statistical machine translation. In 8th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (CoLing 2000), pages 850–856, Saarbru¨ cken, Germany, July. C. Tillmann, S. Vogel, H. Ney, and A. Zubiaga. 1997. A DP-based search using monotone alignments in statistical translation. In Proc. 35th Annual Conf. of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 289–296, Madrid, Spain, July. Ye-Yi Wang and Alex Waibel. 1997. Decoding algorithm in statistical translation. In Proc. 35th Annual Conf. of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 366–372, Madrid, Spain, July.   
