This paper presents an approach that uses structural information for Japanese named entity recognition (NER Our NER system is based on Support Vector Machine (SVM and utilizes four types of structural information: cache features, coreference relations, syntactic features and caseframe features, which are obtained from structural analyses. We evaluated our approach on CRL NE data and obtained a higher F-measure than existing approaches that do not use structural information. We also conducted experiments on IREX NE data and an NE-annotated web corpus and conrmed that structural information improves the performance of NER.

 Named entity recognition (NER) is the task of identifying and classifying phrases into certain classes of named entities (NEs such as names of persons, organizations and locations. Japanese texts, which we focus on, are written without using blank spaces. Therefore, Japanese NER has tight relation with morphological analysis, and thus it is often performed immediately after morphological analysis (Masayuki and Matsumoto, 2003; Yamada, 2007 However, such approaches rely only on local context. The Japanese NER system proposed in (Nakano and Hirai, 2004 which achieved the highest F-measure among conventional systems, introduced the bunsetsu1 feature in order to consider wider context, but considers only adjacent bunsetsus. Research Fellow of the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) 1 Bunsetsu is a commonly used linguistic unit in Japanese, consisting of one or more adjacent content words and zero or more following functional words.On the other hand, as for English or Chinese, various NER systems have explored global information and reported their effectiveness. In (Malouf, 2002; Chieu and Ng, 2002 information about features assigned to other instances of the same token is utilized Ji and Grishman, 2005) uses the information obtained from coreference analysis for NER Mohit and Hwa, 2005) uses syntactic features in building a semi-supervised NE tagger. In this paper, we present a Japanese NER system that uses global information obtained from several structural analyses. To be more specic, our system is based on SVM, recognizes NEs after syntactic, case and coreference analyses and uses information obtained from these analyses and the NER results for the previous context, integrally. At this point, it is true that NER results are useful for syntactic, case and coreference analyses, and thus these analyses and NER should be performed in a complementary way. However, since we focus on NER, we recognize NE after these structural analyses.

In this paper, we presented an approach that uses structural information for Japanese NER. We introduced four types of structural information to an SVM-based NER system: cache features, coreference relations, syntactic features and caseframe features, and conducted NER experiments on three data. As a consequence, the performance of NER was improved by using structural information and our approach achieved a higher F-measure than existing approaches 
