This paper studies named entity translation and proposes selective temporality as a new feature, as using temporal features may be harmful for translating atemporal entities. Our key contribution is building an automatic classifier to distinguish temporal and atemporal entities then align them in separate procedures to boost translation accuracy by 6.1%.

0English ChineseWeekTemporal entity: Usain Bolt EnglishChineseNamed entity translation discovery aims at mapping entity names for people, locations, etc. in source language into their corresponding names in target language. As many new named entities appear every day in newspapers and web sites, their translations are non-trivial yet essential. Early efforts of named entity translation have focused on using phonetic feature (called PH) to estimate a phonetic similarity between two names (Knight and Graehl, 1998; Li et al 2004; Virga and Khudanpur, 2003 In contrast, some approaches have focused on using context feature (called CX) which compares surrounding words of entities (Fung and Yee, 1998; Diab and Finch, 2000; Laroche and Langlais, 2010 Recently, holistic approaches combining such similarities have been studied (Shao and Ng, 2004; You et al 2010; Kim et al 2011 Shao and Ng, 2004) rank translation candidates using PH and CX independently and return results with the highest average rank You et al 2010) compute initial translation scores using PH and iteratively update the scores using relationship feature (called R Kim et al 2011) boost Yous approach by additionally leveraging CX. More recent approaches consider temporal feature (called T) of entities in two corpora (Klementiev and Roth, 2006; Tao et al 2006; Sproat et WeekAtemporal entity: Hillary Clinton Figure 1: Illustration on temporality al 2006; Kim et al 2012 T is computed using frequency vectors for entities and combined with PH (Klementiev and Roth, 2006; Tao et al 2006 Sproat et al 2006) extend Taos approach by iteratively updating overall similarities using R Kim et al 2012) holistically combine all the features: PH, CX, T, and R. However, T used in previous approaches is a good feature only if temporal behaviors are symmetric across corpora. In contrast, Figure 1 illustrates asymmetry, by showing the frequencies of Usain Bolt, a Jamaican sprinter, and Hillary Clinton, an American politician, in comparable news articles during the year 2008. The former is mostly mentioned in the context of some temporal events, e.g Beijing Olympics, while the latter is not. In such case, as Hillary Clinton is a famous female leader, she may be associated with other Chinese female leaders in Chinese corpus, while such association is rarely observed in English corpus, which causes asymmetry. That is, Hillary Clinton is atemporal, as Figure 1 shows, such that using such dissimilarity against deciding this pair as a correct translation would be harmful. In clear contrast, for Usain Bolt, similarity of temporal dis201 Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 201205, Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. Qc 2013 Association for Computational Linguistics tributions in Figure 1 is a good feature for concluding this pair as a correct one. To overcome such problems, we propose a new notion of selective temporality (called this fea 2.3 Step 3: Reinforcement We reinforce R0 by leveraging R and obtain a converged matrix R using the following model: ture ST to distinguish from T) to automatically distinguish temporal and atemporal entities. ToRt+1 0 1)t (u,v) ward this goal, we design a classifier to distinguish (i,j R(i,j 2k (u,v)k Bt (i,j temporal entities from atemporal entities, based on which we align temporal projections of entity graphs for the temporal ones and the entire entity graphs for the atemporal ones. We also propose a method to identify the optimal window size for temporal entities. We validate this selective use of temporal features boosts the accuracy by 6.1%.

This paper validated that considering temporality selectively is helpful for improving the translation quality. We developed a classifier to distinguish temporalentities and our proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art approach by 6.1 
