This paper focuses on the Web-based English-Chinese OOV term translation pattern, and emphasizes particularly on the translation selection strategy based on the fusion of multiple features and the ranking mechanism based on Ranking Support Vector Machine (Ranking SVM). By utilizing the CoNLL2003 corpus for the English Named Entity Recognition (NER) task and selected new terms, the experiments based on different data sources show the consistent results. Our OOV term translation model can “filter” the most possible translation candidates with better ability. From the experimental results for combining our OOV term translation model with English-Chinese CrossLanguage Information Retrieval (CLIR) on the data sets of Text Retrieval Evaluation Conference (TREC), it can be found that the obvious performance improvement for both query translation and retrieval can also be obtained.

 In Cross-Language Information Retrieval (CLIR), most of users’ queries are generally composed of short terms, in which there are many Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) terms like Named Entities (NEs), new words, terminologies and so on. The translation quality of OOV term directly influences the precision of querying relevant multilingual information. Therefore, OOV term translation has become a very important and challenging issue in CLIR. With the increasing growth of Web information which includes multilingual hypertext resources with abundant topics, it appears that Web information can mitigate the problem of the restricted OOV term translation accuracy (Lu and Chien, 2002). However, how to select the correct translations from Web information and locate the appropriate translation resources rapidly is still the main goal for OOV term translation. Hence, finding the effective feature representation and the optimal ranking pattern for translation candidates is the core part for the Web-based OOV term translation. This paper focuses on the Web-based English-Chinese OOV term translation pattern, and emphasizes particularly on the translation selection strategy based on the fusion of multiple features and the translation ranking mechanism based on Ranking Support Vector Machine (Ranking SVM). By utilizing the CoNLL2003 corpus for the English Named Entity Recognition (NER) task and manually selected new terms in various fields, the established OOV term translation model can “filter” the most possible translation candidates with better ability. This paper also attempts to apply the OOV term translation mechanism above in EnglishChinese CLIR. It can be observed from the experimental results on the data sets of Text Retrieval Evaluation Conference (TREC) that the obvious performance improvement for query translation can be obtained, which is very beneficial to CLIR and can improve the whole retrieval performance. 2  

In this paper, the proposed model improves the acquirement ability for OOV term translation through Web mining, and solves the translation pair selection and evaluation in a novel way by fusing multiple features and introducing the supervised learning based on Ranking SVM. Furthermore, it is significant to apply the key techniques in machine translation into OOV term translation, such as OOV term recognition, statistical machine learning, alignment of sentence and phoneme, and WSD. All these aspects will be our research focus in the future. 
